EC-84: Revise Configuration, Customers, eContent, Login and Logging (#5)
ezsystems/commerce-documentation: docs/guide/econtent/econtent_features/switching_the_data_provider.md

# Switching the data provider

> You can switch the data provider using the command line or manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can switch the data provider, either with the command line or manually.
```

Only one data provider can be activated per installation.

## Switching using a command line

The `silversolutions:switchdataprovider` command switches between the content model data provider and eContent.
It is useful especially for testing purposes.

The command takes the following options:

|Option|Notes|
|--- |--- |
|`--new-root-node`|Default value is `56` for content model data provider, `2` for eContent|
|`--location-id`|Default value is `56`. This is the Location ID of the "Product catalog" Content item in eZ Platform. If you are using another Location ID, change this parameter|

``` bash
# switch to eContent 
php bin/console silversolutions:switchdataprovider econtent --location-id=56 --new-root-node=2
php bin/console silversolutions:indexecontent --no-debug
php bin/console silversolutions:indexecontent swap --no-debug
 
# switch to content model
php bin/console silversolutions:switchdataprovider ez
```

> Remember to clear the cache after running the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that you clear the cache after you execute the command:
```

``` bash
php bin/console cache:clear --env=prod
```

## Data provider switch process

Switching the data provider introduces some changes to your project:

### Changes to `app/config/ecommerce.yml`

``` 
# eContent data provider
resource: '../../vendor/silversolutions/silver.e-shop/src/Silversolutions/Bundle/EshopBundle/Resources/config/config_data_provider_econtent.yml' or 
 
# content model data provider
resource: '../../vendor/silversolutions/silver.e-shop/src/Silversolutions/Bundle/EshopBundle/Resources/config/config_data_provider_ez.yml'
```

### Changes to the "Product catalog" Content item

> The Product catalog's root nod ise set accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Product catalog's root node is set accordingly.
```

![](../../img/product_catalog.png)

- For eContent, the root node is set to `2` by default, for content model it is `56` (in case the demo data is used).

> - The Location ID for the Product catalog can be set to a different value using the `--location-id parameter`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Location ID for the Product catalog can be set to a different value by using the `--location-id parameter`.
```

## Manual switching

### 1. Load root element

First, ensure that you are loading the correct root element for your provider.

![](../../img/manual_switching.png)

### 2. Change configuration

The following settings are already set up in the configuration files `econtent_search.yml` or `ez_search.yml`:

``` yaml
silver_eshop.default.catalog_data_provider: ez5
# or for eContent
silver_eshop.default.catalog_data_provider: econtent 
```

### 3. Configure search services

> Change the alias for search services for every type (product, catalog, content)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change the alias for search services for every type (product, catalog, content).
```
